Read /Users/wizard/Documents/poddy/NIGHTLY_QA.md first for the shared QA procedure,
release-to-test planning, startup/modal handling and authority boundaries. This
file retains adapter-specific mechanics and historical diagnostic limits; it does
not grant authority to alter a host, publish findings or bypass qualification.

Wizard QA: preferred Qt computer-use route (verified 2026-10-05)

Applies to Nightly regression and user-requested functional reviews. Retain each
review's build selection, fixture requirements, reporting and recipient rules.
Do not change the installed build merely to obtain a compatible harness course.

Use a hybrid route for routine functional QA. Prefer Athanor in
/Users/wizard/wiz-ops/smoke for rich UI inspection and evidence when its external
adapter qualifies against the selected build. Use verified physical input for
tested gestures, and the authorized exact-PID native input/capture fallback
when an Athanor flow is unsupported, slow or unreliable. Keep fresh ownership,
window and foreground guards, independent assertions and screenshots with
either route; do not weaken verification to save time. Keep both routes.
Use the ordinary uninstrumented installed build with native input for
performance, idle preparation, resource/power and permission-persistence tests.
Preserve the exact selected build identity. Athanor inspection avoids known Qt
macOS AX traversal crash paths but does not establish that those bugs are fixed.
Do not assume the integrated Athanor physical route is faster; see the matched
export-review timing follow-up below.
It launches a disposable copy at startup; it does not hot-attach to an existing
process. Wizard's executable and bundled Qt must remain unchanged. The copy
omits only Contents/MacOS/logs, which contains unsealed runtime output. Preserve
all signed resources, including shipped Python caches. Never re-sign the app.
Validate the copy's signature, package fingerprint, actual PID/start time,
isolated settings and loaded bundled Qt paths before using it.

Read /Users/wizard/wiz-ops/AGENTS.md, smoke/AGENTS.md and these smoke docs before
using or repairing it: desktop-tools-setup.md, computer-use-agent.md,
agent-tools.md, build-repair.md and maintaining-harness.md.

Prerequisites and setup:
- Node 24+: currently /Users/wizard/.cache/codex-runtimes/codex-primary-runtime/dependencies/node/bin/node.
- Put that directory and /opt/homebrew/bin in PATH for every harness command.
- Xcode Command Line Tools, pkg-config (Homebrew pkgconf) and a Qt SDK matching
  the selected package exactly. Verified package and Homebrew Qt were 6.11.2.
  Rediscover versions for every new build. Do not assume a newer SDK matches.
- From smoke/, run npm test and npm run scope:check after source changes and
  before taking a desktop lease. Tests that exercise leases conflict with a
  live owned session; do not mislabel that conflict as an app regression.
- Start node scripts/harness.mjs serve --port 0 --no-open. Keep it running and
  use its printed URL, not a URL or port retained from a prior run.
- Run node scripts/smoke.mjs setup, list and courses, each with --server URL.
  Prepare the selected build/checks and use only a Ready plan for course runs.

Qualification limits:
Nightly 2026.10.05-9e15335 has a CLI schema different from the mapped contract.
Course preparation correctly refused it. Do not bypass that gate, substitute a
different build or manufacture an Athanor Pass. Review exact contracts before
changing mappings. Direct diagnostic UI attachment remains useful:
  node desktop/attach.mjs --app /Applications/Wizard.app
This prints an owned session and lasts two minutes. For longer interactive QA,
inspect work/wizard-nightly/athanor-attachment-probe.mjs; it keeps a diagnostic
attachment alive for ten minutes and waits for confirmed cleanup on shutdown.
Use the current receipt, never a historical session path or PID.

Read capabilities first:
  node desktop/session.mjs native SESSION.json capabilities '{}'
Then use desktop/session.mjs tool SESSION.json with preflight, scoped observe,
find, physical, wait and capture as documented. Diagnostic sessions do not have
a frozen fixture/proof contract and cannot record arbitrary toolkit Passes.
Keep their independent functional assertions and evidence in the nightly or
functional-review report instead.

Interaction and evidence:
- Save and close a known prior QA instance through verified UI before launch;
  preserve unrelated projects. Use one owned Wizard instance at a time to avoid
  shared bundle-ID activation ambiguity. Verify cleanup before another launch.
- Use physical input for the gesture under test. Qt actions/application calls
  are useful for setup and observation, but are not proof of a physical gesture.
- Resolve current controls, timeline ownership and window geometry each time.
  Run preflight and verify every action's result. Check the active keyboard
  layout before shortcuts; the user switched off Dvorak on 2026-10-05.
- Native ownership checks remain mandatory. The patched driver rejects actual
  occluders while excluding off-display WindowManager placeholders and Dock
  hosting windows only where the verified system Dock reports no hit.
- Wait for observed conditions, with bounded timeouts. Inspect Unknown mutation
  outcomes before continuing; never blindly replay them.
- Capture displayed pixels with toolkit capture, not just Qt widget rasters.
  MainWindow presented capture passed. A floating Spellbook panel crop failed
  with 'Capture region must stay inside the observed native window.' Try a
  whole-window capture or verified native screenshot and inspect the result.
  The floating-window alternative was not qualified in this probe; report any
  remaining capture assertion as PARTIAL/NOT_RUN, not an invented permission
  blocker. Keep each capture and native-input receipt.
- Advertised timeline geometry was not exercised with clips in this probe.
  The probe created an empty local project; it did not qualify media playback,
  editing, export, resource use or every functional case.
- Use the ordinary, uninstrumented build for performance, idle/power and
  permission-persistence claims. The adapter adds instrumentation and isolated
  settings. Ten Qt reads had 109.26 ms median latency; no comparative speedup
  or app-performance benchmark was performed.

Fallback:
Use the authorized exact-Unix-PID native fallback for unsupported adapter flows
or ordinary installed-build testing. For /Applications/Wizard.app, rediscover
the executable exactly /Applications/Wizard.app/Contents/MacOS/wizard-bin after
every restart, then use that PID with AXUIElementCreateApplication. Never use
NSRunningApplication.processIdentifier or repeated app/name/bundle-ID lookups.
For an attached copy, use its verified executable/PID/start-time receipt, not
the installed-app path. Keep Updater and macOS dialogs on standard computer use.
Permission changes are user-authorized when needed; verify them and keep secure
authentication values out of reports and prompts.

Opening Spellbook and ten subsequent Qt inspections completed without a crash.
This avoids Wizard's macOS AX traversal; it does not prove the previously
reported AX crash is fixed. Preserve that candidate and test the ordinary path
separately when appropriate. Stop repeated crash loops and retain diagnostics.

Keep the existing local-project, NAS subtree, fixture, no-paid-generation,
ASD-STE100 and evidence rules. For all Athanor QA reporting, read
/Users/wizard/Documents/poddy/REPORTING.md: only Charles's verified Slack DM
(U0BDBFNU0G1), Jira read-only, no automatic email or team/requester-thread delivery.
Do not overwrite the prior tested outcome or announce unchanged tooling results.
Validation report: outputs/wizard-nightly/qt-adapter-2026-10-05-report.html.

2026-10-05 matched export-review timing follow-up:
- Harness branch poddy-qa was rebased onto main cdf66da and pushed as 1b71518.
  Current framework verification: 264 PASS, 0 FAIL, 0 SKIP; scope check passed.
- Reused all 12 export-review-1378 instructions as matched benchmark assertions
  on Nightly 2026.10.05-9e15335. Native: 30.83 s; Athanor: 118.30 s; both 12 PASS.
  Both measured runs had 54 input calls, 56 fresh observations, 16 displayed
  captures, two GUI exports and full FFmpeg decode checks. No measured retries.
- This is repeat scripted execution after qualification, not total agent QA
  time. One native-first pair; normalized preferences and warm exports; different
  input/capture guards. No general speedup or Wizard performance claim.
  Qt observation total fell from 13.11 to 7.72 s, but integrated guarded input
  and capture costs increased. Prefer Athanor for inspection and evidence;
  do not assume its full physical route reduces elapsed QA time.
- E is absent from the current harness physical-key allowlist. Use the authorized
  exact-PID native keyboard fallback for Cmd+E; verify the export window opens.
  Other physical keys in this review were tested through the guarded driver.
- NativeFormat preferences were not isolated by HOME/WIZARD_SETTINGS on this
  Mac. Match required starting controls through the GUI; do not call a normalized
  state a clean-profile default. The original defaults assertion remains untested.
- Startup physical activation once changed the startup surface before dispatch,
  producing a retained stale-window rejection. Inspect fresh UI and verified PID
  foreground ownership before continuing; do not blindly repeat a stale click.
- Report and full timing/evidence:
  outputs/wizard-nightly/qa-timing-2026-10-05/report.html and results.json.
